                       May 12, 2005 Thursday 4:16 AM  EST

MEMBERS OF CONGRESS INTRODUCE COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM BILL

BYLINE: US States News

LENGTH: 674  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following press release:

Sens. McCain and Kennedy joined by Reps. Kolbe, Flake and Gutierrez today
introduced The Secure America and Orderly Immigration Act of 2005. The
legislation follows months of thoughtful debate and negotiation, which has
resulted in bipartisan, bicameral, comprehensive immigration reform.

"The status quo is unacceptable, and we need to modernize our broken immigration
system to meet the challenges of the 21st Century. And we need policies that
continue to reflect our best values as a nation - of fairness, equal
opportunity, and respect for the law. One of the mistakes of the past is to
assume we can control illegal immigration on our own. A realistic immigration
policy must be a two-way street. Under our plan, America will do its part, but
we expect Mexico and other nations to do their part, too, to replace an illegal
immigration flow with regulated, legal immigration," said Kennedy.

McCain said, "Homeland security is our nation's number one priority, this
legislation includes a number of provisions that together will make our nation
more secure. For far too long, our nation's broken immigration laws have gone
unreformed - leaving Americans vulnerable. We can no longer afford to delay
reform. I am proud to join my colleagues today as an original Sponsor of this
legislation"

"This is a comprehensive bill that doesn't try to solve the hemorrhaging
immigration problem with a ban-aid - this bill is major surgery. The majority of
the illegal immigration is happening in Arizona, and I will not stand by and let
southern Arizona be the doormat for this country's failed immigration policy,"
said Rep. Kolbe. "They are illegal immigrants - they have broken the law and
must be punished. That is why this legislation includes strict fines and
penalties for those already in this country illegally and tough punishments for
employers who hire illegal immigrants. More importantly, it provides the secure
identification document so an employer can know the person seeking work is here
legally. We must recognize reality and implement a tightly structured guest
worker program to securely, and legally, fill jobs that no American is available
or wants to do. Over the past several years, border security has been a
necessity for all members of Congress, but it has been a top priority for only a
few. Today, I am proud to continue my work as one of those few. I will work hard
with Senator McCain, Senator Kennedy, Rep. Flake and Rep. Gutierrez to educate
Congress and the public about the need for practical reform. We are at an
important threshold - we can either work hard to secure our borders through
commonsense reform of our immigration system, or hang-on to unrealistic ideals
that will never improve the safety of our country."

"We need a plan that fairly balances national security, economic reality, and
worker protections, and I think our bill comes pretty darn close," said Flake.
"I believe that this bill is very consistent with President Bush's principles of
immigration reform and, given that the President has made immigration reform a
priority of his second term, I hope that our colleagues in Congress will give
this bill the consideration that it deserves."

"This bill represents a vital step toward an immigration policy that makes
sense," Gutierrez said. "It reflects the enormous contributions immigrants make
every day, it respects our nation's proud history of welcoming men and women to
seek a better life and it better protects our homeland by creating a system of
improved accountability and security."

If enacted, this legislation will help America meet 21st century challenges by
replacing current outdated immigration laws with reforms that will make
immigration policies more realistic and enforceable. The bill will help get
control of our borders, strengthen our national security, create an even playing
field for employers and ensure full labor rights for all our workers.

Contact: Matthew Specht, 202/225-2635.

