                   November 14, 2007 Wednesday 12:46 AM  EST

REP. FLAKE INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO SOLVE LOOMING SOCIAL SECURITY AND MEDICARE
CRISES

BYLINE: US Fed News

LENGTH: 491  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following press release:

Republican Congressman Jeff Flake, who represents Arizona's Sixth District,
today unveiled a plan to solve the looming Social Security and Medicare crises
by transitioning, over a 42-year period, to a system where workers control their
retirement and health care accounts.

Congressman Flake's introduction of the plan today coincided with the 2007
Liberty Summit hosted by FreedomWorks.

"I know that many Members of Congress aren't anxious to begin debating Social
Security and Medicare reform again," said Flake. "But as politically unappealing
as this debate may be, the alternative of doing nothing is much worse."

"This bill ensures that the principles of Social Security and Medicare are
preserved while addressing many of the concerns that have been raised about such
plans. It's a comprehensive bill and I hope my colleagues take it up."

The SMART Act ensures that:

* New workers' contributions are protected in an account with their name on it.

* All current workers (age 23 and older) have the choice between current law and
the new system.

* NO CHANGES from current law for today's retirees.

Personal Social Security Accounts:

* The direct 7.65% tax currently imposed on wages is converted to a compulsory
savings. The individual may then choose among five performance-approved mutual
funds for investment of these amounts.

Social Security Retirement Benefits:

* At retirement, the individual will be given an estimate of how much their
personal account is worth compared to their estimated traditional Social
Security payments. He or she may then choose between current law or the new
system.

Medicare Benefits:

* Similar to Social Security, retiring workers may choose between traditional
Medicare coverage and a system paired with a savings account and a
high-deductible health plan--whichever has greater value for their needs.

* Individuals may use funds in their personal Social Security accounts to offset
the cost of choosing the new system.

Tax Treatment of Accounts and Contributions:

* Contributions to accounts are made in the same manner as today's FICA
contributions. Purchases of life annuities and fund disbursements after
retirement are not taxed.

Social Security Escrow Fund:

* A Social Security Escrow Fund is created and dedicated solely to the payment
of Social Security benefits to contributing workers.

* Upon elimination of the unfunded liabilities of the current broken system,
excess funds will be used first to eliminate the payroll tax on employers, then
to pay down the national debt.

Federal Budget Reforms:

* Revenues exceeding CBO's 2006 future federal receipt forecasts are used to
cover transitional expenses.

Price Index:

* Changes current indexing from CPI-U to C-CPI-U and changes the initial benefit
calculation from a wage index to a price index.

Contact: Matthew Specht, 202/225-2635.

