                    September 14, 2006 Thursday 1:10 AM  EST

REP. FLAKE PRAISES EARMARK RULE CHANGE

BYLINE: US Fed News

LENGTH: 431  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following press release:

Rep. Jeff Flake, who represents Arizona's Sixth District, today made the
following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives regarding the
earmark rule change:

"Mr. Speaker, the United States Congress is a wonderful and storied institution.
It is with great reverence and pride that each of us who are elected come to
this body. But with the practice of earmarking we have departed from the
practices and traditions of the People's House.

When working properly, the House of Representatives follows the time-honored
practice of authorization, appropriation, and oversight. Earmarking
short-circuits this process. Today we do far too little authorizing, far too
much appropriating, and far too little oversight.

When I was first elected, I had visions of participating in the great debates of
our time: How can we give the federal government the tools it needs to identify
and root out our enemies while maintaining a free society? What tax and trade
policies lend themselves to survival and prosperity in a global economy? How do
we assert our influence abroad in a manner that enhances our security?

It is not that these policy debates haven't occurred during my time in Congress.
They have and they do. But I believe it is safe to say that are diminishing.

In Congress, policies and priorities are established when money is attached to
them. When the carefully designed process of authorization, appropriation, and
oversight is adhered to, these policies and priorities are given a thorough
vetting. But when earmarks are inserted into bills at the last minute, behind
closed doors, there is no debate, deliberation, or scrutiny.

When appropriations bills reach the House floor, passage by a lopsided margin is
virtually assured because members with earmarks are obligated to vote for the
entire bill. The scope of debate is substantially narrowed when even partisan
disagreements that would otherwise occur are hushed as Republicans and Democrats
find common cause in protecting their earmarks.

I am under no illusion that this legislation, which deals only with the issue of
transparency, will solve the problem of earmarking. Too many in this body have
been convinced that they have both a right and an obligation to personally
direct funding to their district. But this bill does represent an important
first step.

Mr. Speaker, we owe this institution more than we are giving it. Let's pass this
bill and give it more of the respect it deserves."

Contact: Matthew Specht, 202/225-2635.

