                    February 15, 2005 Tuesday 11:18 PM  EST

REP. FLAKE SENDS LETTER TO PRESIDENT PRAISING PERSONNEL SYSTEM AT HOMELAND
SECURITY DEPARTMENT

BYLINE: US Fed News

LENGTH: 460  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following press release:

Arizona Rep. Jeff Flake, who represents the state's Sixth District, today sent a
letter to President Bush praising the personnel system implemented at the
Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and urging the White House to expand the
system to other federal agencies.

The personnel system at DHS now uses a merit-based system for pay and
promotions, rather than the civil service system used by other federal agencies
that uses seniority and longevity to award employees.

"If we want our government to operate most efficiently and effectively, we would
be wise to expand the Department of Homeland Security's merit-based personnel
system to other federal agencies," said Flake.

Congressman Flake's letter was signed by sixteen other Members of Congress. A
copy of the letter is attached.

February 15, 2005

President George W. Bush

The White House

1600 Pennsylvania Avenue

Washington, D.C. 20502

Dear President Bush,

We are writing to express our support for the new personnel system at the
Department of Homeland Security, as well as any future effort to expand this
system to other federal agencies.

As you are well aware, the General Schedule civil service system based on
longevity is 50 years old, and has become outdated in today's modern workforce.
The workforce has changed, and the way that workers are compensated and rewarded
must be changed as well.

We believe a merit-based pay and promotion system using annual employee
performance evaluations will increase employee morale and productivity. This
type of pay and promotion system will allow the Department to attract the best
and the brightest that this country has to offer. Correspondingly, we believe
that other federal agencies would be at a disadvantage if they were not given a
similar option to adopt such changes to their personnel systems.

We firmly believe the federal government will run more efficiently, and
employees will be treated more fairly, if these reforms are enacted. The time
has come to promote a personnel system that mirrors the market and requires
management and employees to work together to achieve the same goals.

Thank you for your leadership on this important step towards civil service
reform. We urge you to apply these reforms uniformly across the federal sector.

Sincerely,

Rep. Jeff Flake

Rep. Todd Akin

Rep. Gresham Barrett

Rep. Roscoe Bartlett

Rep. Marsha Blackburn

Rep. John Boozman

Rep. Kevin Brady

Rep. Dan Burton

Rep. Chris Chocola

Rep. Scott Garrett

Rep. Gil Gutknecht

Rep. John Kline

Rep. Jeff Miller

Rep. Sue Myrick

Rep. Darrel Issa

Rep. Patrick McHenry

Rep. Charlie Norwood.

Contact: Matthew Specht, 202/225-2635.

