                    February 15, 2007 Thursday 1:48 AM  EST

REP. FLAKE COMMENTS OPPOSING IRAQ RESOLUTION

BYLINE: US Fed News

LENGTH: 377  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following press release:

Republican Rep. Jeff Flake, a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee,
today made the following remarks in opposition to House Concurrent Resolution
63:

"I rise today in opposition to the resolution before us. I wish that I could do
so with the type of surety that seems to motivate many of my colleagues on this
issue. But such resolute certainty escapes me.

"I don't have a military background. In fact, few of us debating this resolution
do. But each of us can find generals and former generals who will support
virtually every option we wish to lay on the table.

"In the end, as legislators, we are left with our own counsel. Hopefully, such
counsel is informed by briefings, hearings, meetings and visits to the region.
But we cannot, and should not, try to place ourselves in the position of
commander-in-chief. Our system of government wisely gives that role to the chief
executive.

"This is not to say, however, that we shouldn't be having this discussion. Some
have said that simply debating this resolution emboldens our enemies. Perhaps
they are right. But we would not suspend due process in this country because it
might embolden criminals - it is a price we are willing to pay. Likewise,
debating the merits of war is what democratic nations do.

"My own thoughts on the situation in Iraq are as follows: I have little
confidence that a surge in troop levels will change the situation in Iraq in any
substantive fashion. It seems clear that the violence in Iraq is increasingly
sectarian, and inserting more troops in this atmosphere is unlikely to improve
the situation. Without a more sincere commitment to step up to the plate from
the Iraqi Government, we are unlikely to make significant progress.

"But when all is said and done, we have a commander-in-chief whom we have
authorized to go to war. Inserting ourselves, as legislators, into the chain of
command by passing a resolution, non-binding though it may be, that questions
the President's decision to conduct a mission that is clearly already underway,
strikes me as folly.

"I urge my colleagues to vote no on the resolution, and yield back the balance
of my time."

Contact: Matthew Specht, 202/225-2635.

