                     March 15, 2006 Wednesday 2:03 AM  EST

REPS. FLAKE, LUNGREN TO INTRODUCE BILL TO MAKE CONGRESSIONAL TRAVEL TRANSPARENT

BYLINE: US Fed News

LENGTH: 296  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following press release:

Republican Rep. Jeff Flake, who represents Arizona's Sixth District, along with
Republican Rep. Dan Lungren of California today announced plans to introduce
legislation permitting pre-approved privately financed congressional travel.

The Flake-Lungren bill would establish a pre-approval process for privately
financed congressional travel and require that travel records for Members of
Congress and staff be available online.

"A blindly inflexible ban on privately financed travel is a clear example of
Congress throwing the baby out with the bathwater."

"There are reasonable, less draconian solutions to the current problems, and we
owe it to the American people to explore those options. Full and timely
disclosure of all facts concerning any privately sponsored trips would allow our
constituents the information they need to make judgment about Members of
Congress."

"It would be detrimental to Congress, educational and charitable programs,
non-profit organizations, and taxpayers who would otherwise foot the bill for
congressional travel to completely ban privately financed travel."

"Current proposals placing total control of all privately funded travel with the
House Leadership would further concentrate their influence and power. Banning
all privately financed travel has a number of negative unintended consequences
and is not in the interest of anybody but the Leadership," said Flake and
Lungren in a joint statement.

Congressmen Flake and Lungren plan to introduce free-standing legislation this
week, but may offer the bill as an amendment to any lobbying reform proposal
that attempts to ban all privately financed congressional travel.

Contact: Matthew Specht, 202/225-2635.

