                    October 15, 2008 Wednesday 12:18 AM  EST

REP. FLAKE EXPRESSES CONCERN OVER BANK NATIONALIZATION PLAN

BYLINE: US Fed News

LENGTH: 307  words

DATELINE: MESA, Ariz.


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following press release:

Republican Congressman Jeff Flake, who represents Arizona's Sixth District,
today expressed several concerns as the Treasury Department begins to
nationalize many of the country's largest banks.

"I recognize that, despite the concerns of many in Congress about inserting
government more deeply into the private sector, a new plan to partially
nationalize the country's banks is moving ahead," said Flake. "Particularly
disconcerting are reports that this involvement is being forced on many banking
institutions who are seeking no government assistance."

"A concern shared by many in Congress is that the federal government will use
its ownership of these financial institutions as a way to enact social policy.
For example, will the government force its banks to freeze foreclosures even
when such an action would clearly not be in the best interest of the banks'
success? Will these banks be required to make loans to those who are clearly not
in a position to repay? Will we see the problems of home mortgage intervention
in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac now multiplied with business and consumer loans?
And, having found a powerful instrument of social policy, will the government be
tempted to continue its ownership in these banks even when this crisis is over?"

"Another worry is that the federal government will create an uneven playing
field for private banks competing with banks owned in part by the government.
Will government grants and contracts be awarded fairly when the government may
have a direct financial stake in the outcome? Will Congress write legislation
that favors government-owned banks over private institutions?"

"As the Treasury Department implements this plan, I hope they give consideration
to these questions."

Contact: Matthew Specht, 202/225-2635.

