                     July 16, 2008 Wednesday 11:27 PM  EST

REPS. CAMPBELL, FLAKE ANNOUNCE PLANS TO STRIKE ANY EARMARKS FOR CHAIRMAN
RANGEL'S 'MONUMENT TO ME'

BYLINE: US Fed News

LENGTH: 303  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following press release:

Congressman John Campbell of California and Congressman Jeff Flake of Arizona
today announced plans to challenge any earmarks in FY09 appropriations bills for
Chairman Charles Rangel's "Monument to Me."

The Washington Post reported yesterday that Chairman Rangel has secured a total
of three earmarks for the City College of New York's proposed Charles B. Rangel
Center for Public Service.

"Last year, 316 Members of Congress voted against our amendment to stop an
earmark for Charlie Rangel's 'Monument to Me," said Campbell. "The question now
remains whether these members will continue to enable Rangel's bad behavior."

"This project was bad enough when we thought it was just one earmark," said
Flake, "but this appears to be an ongoing effort to milk federal taxpayers. If
Chairman Rangel tries to slip any more earmarks for his 'Monument to Me' into
this year's spending bills, Congressman Campbell and I plan to strike them."

The City College of New York received an earmark for $450,000 in the
Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations bill for FY06 for "the planning,
design, and construction of the Center for Public Service." The College received
two more earmarks in the Omnibus Appropriations bill for FY08: a $245,000
earmark for "planning, design, construction, renovation, and build out of a
multipurpose educational facility" and a $1,950,000 earmark for "the Charles B.
Rangel Center for Public Service to prepare individuals for careers in public
service, which may include establishing an endowment, library and archives for
such center."

Congressman John Campbell offered an amendment last year to strike the latter
earmark, but the House of Representatives voted 316 to 108 to keep the earmark.

Contact: Matthew Specht, 202/225-2635.

