                    November 16, 2005 Wednesday 1:07 AM  EST

REP. FLAKE APPLAUDS REMOVAL OF 'BRIDGE TO NOWHERE' EARMARK

BYLINE: US Fed News

LENGTH: 336  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following press release:

Arizona Rep. Jeff Flake, who represents the state's Sixth District, today
applauded the removal of the so-called "Bridge to Nowhere" earmark from the
recently passed transportation bill.

The $223 million earmark for a bridge connecting the town of Ketchikan, Alaska
to a nearby island of 50 full-time residents has been dubbed the "Bridge to
Nowhere" by critics. Congressional leaders have moved to remove the earmark
language so that Alaska transportation managers can spend that funding on
projects of greater priority.

"We've managed to remove one earmark from the transportation bill, but we've
still got over 5,800 earmarks to go," said Flake.

"The Bridge to Nowhere has become a symbol for the fiscal excess in the
transportation bill, but there are thousands of earmarks in the bill that are
just as excessive."

Congressman Flake listed other pork projects in the bill that ought to raise
just as much ire as the Bridge to Nowhere: $231 million for a bridge connecting
Anchorage, Alaska to unpopulated wetlands; $2.7 million for the Packard Museum
in Warren, Ohio; $2.6 million for pedestrian walkway and bikeway improvements
along the NYC Greenway System in Coney Island, NY; $2 million for intermodal
transportation at the Bronx Zoo; $1.6 to enhance the Battery Park bikeway
perimeter in New York City; $2.3 million for landscaping enhancements "for
aesthetic purposes" along the Ronald Reagan Freeway, CA; and literally thousands
of more earmarks like this.

Congressman Flake has introduced legislation (H.R. 4071) that would give states
greater flexibility to spend funding from the transportation bill as they see
fit. The bill would allow states to disregard earmark instructions in the bill
and spend the money on projects they believe are of greatest importance. It
would also rescind 10 percent of funding in the bill for deficit reduction and
to offset hurricane recovery spending.

Contact: Matthew Specht, 202/225-2635.

