                     December 17, 2006 Sunday 4:51 AM  EST

REP. FLAKE ISSUES STATEMENT ON BEHALF OF CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION TO CUBA

BYLINE: US Fed News

LENGTH: 404  words

DATELINE: HAVANA


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following statement:

Rep. Jeff Flake, who represents Arizona's Sixth District, today released the
following statement on behalf of the congressional delegation to Cuba:

"It is time for the United States to enter a dialogue with Cuba.

"America has important interests in Cuba and strong disagreements with the Cuban
government. At a time when Cuba is changing and the opportunities to advance our
interests and values in Cuba are not known, we unanimously believe that the
United States should respond positively to the proposal made by Raul Castro in
his speech of December 2.

"No one should be under the illusion that a negotiation with Cuba would be easy,
or that results would be guaranteed. But if we refuse to engage in normal
diplomacy, we are guaranteed to produce no results at all.

"We should be consulting regularly about migration issues, to protect national
security and to save lives. We should see if more can be done to fight drug
trafficking. We should be talking right now about Cuba's offshore oil
exploration, given its potential impact on our own marine environment. We know
there are fugitives from American justice here, and there are some in U.S.
custody who are of interest to Cuba. Perhaps there is the basis of an agreement
there.

"There may be other areas of opportunity. Only by probing Cuba's proposal is it
possible to find out.

"Our visit provided the first official American contact with senior Cuban
officials since the delegation of executive powers last July 31. We appreciate
the time and courtesies that our hosts extended throughout our visit."

Delegation members:

Republicans

Jeff Flake, Arizona

Jo Ann Emerson, Missouri

Jerry Moran, Kansas

Mike Conaway, Texas

Democrats

Jane Harman, California

Lincoln Davis, Tennessee

Jim McGovern, Massachusetts

Bill Delahunt, Massachusetts

Hilda Solis, California

Gregory Meeks, New York

Meetings conducted:

Felipe Perez Roque, Minister of Foreign Relations

Yadira Garcia, Minister of Basic Industries

Francisco Soberon, President of the Central Bank

Fernando Remirez, International Relations Chief, Central Committee

Pedro Alvarez, Director, Alimport

Ricardo Alarcon, President of National Assembly

Cardinal Jaime Ortega Alamino

Diplomats from Spain, Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Switzerland, and the
Holy See

Michael Parmly, U.S. Interests Section

Contact: Matthew Specht, 202/225-2635.

