                       July 17, 2007 Tuesday 1:09 AM  EST

REP. FLAKE DELIVERS SPEECH ON EARMARK REFORM

BYLINE: US Fed News

LENGTH: 968  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following speech:

Republican Congressman Jeff Flake, who represents Arizona's Sixth District,
today delivered the following speech on the floor of the House of
Representatives:

"Mr. Speaker, I rise today out of concern for what earmarks are doing to this
body. Those of us on the Republican side understand very well the political
perils of this practice. Unfettered earmarking, and the corruption that
accompanies it, was a major factor in putting us right where we are today:
squarely in the minority.

"But there are greater concerns than which party is in the majority. I would
hope that all of us, Republicans and Democrats, would be concerned about what
earmarks are doing to the practice of authorization, appropriation, and
oversight that has been the hallmark of this institution for more than two
centuries.

"Proponents of earmarking defend the practice by noting that Article One of the
Constitution gives Congress the power of the purse, and that earmarking is
consistent with that responsibility. It is true that Congress has the power of
the purse. But the contemporary practice of earmarking circumvents, rather than
enhances, the careful execution of our responsibility as stewards of public
funds.

"Take the Labor-HHS Appropriations bill that we will consider this week. Under
the new earmark rules adopted earlier this year, a list of earmarks accompanies
the conference report. We received that list late last week. It contains 1,300
earmarks. Are we to assume that each of these 1,300 projects have been
individually scrubbed to ensure their appropriateness to the legislation?

"I suspect that, as the distinguished Chairman of the Appropriations Committee
said just weeks ago, there is no way to adequately screen these earmarks given
the tight appropriation schedule. The question needs to be asked: Why are we so
bent on moving forward with so many earmarks when we know we can't adequately
screen them?

"I should note that no House earmarks were approved in last year's Labor-HHS
bill. Last time I checked, the world didn't come crashing to a halt. What's
more, owing to the politics surrounding the bill, no earmarks were approved the
year before that. Here again, the planets seemed to stay in their orbit. The
Chairman has frequently pointed out that, until a decade ago, the Labor-HHS bill
wasn't earmarked at all. So, why are we so insistent on approving 1,300 earmarks
this week, earmarks that we know haven't been adequately vetted and scrubbed?

"Perhaps the most frequent justification for the contemporary practice of
earmarking is that, quote, 'Members of Congress know their districts better than
some faceless bureaucrat in Washington, DC.' I'm not here to defend faceless
bureaucrats. In fact, faceless bureaucrats often waste money on questionable
projects in my own district. Faceless bureaucrats in federal agencies waste so
much money that they need someone constantly looking over their shoulder. This
is why congressional oversight is so important.

"But, let's face it: when we approve congressional earmarks for indoor
rainforests in Iowa or teapot museums in North Carolina, we make the most
spendthrift faceless bureaucrat look frugal. Excess by federal agencies should
not excuse congressional excess. If federal agencies don't follow procedures
requiring competitive bidding or other processes we have mandated, we should act
by cutting funding and/or mandating improvements, not trying to one-up them with
equally suspect appropriations.

"As an aside, we saw just weeks ago that the majority of this chamber chose to
deny funding for an earmark requested by an individual member. For the record, I
offered the amendment to deny funding for the "Perfect Christmas Tree Project."
There was no federal nexus and it was not a wise use of federal dollars. But it
was no less worthy than hundreds of projects funded by the same legislation. I
would like to conclude that the amendment succeeded thanks to the compelling
case I presented, but I suspect that political payback had more to do with it.

"The distribution of earmarks is based on politics, not policy. Most
appropriations bills award 60 percent of the earmarks to the majority party and
40 percent to the minority party. Is there a policy reason for this allocation
that can reverse itself with an election? In most appropriations bills,
well-positioned members award themselves many more earmarks than rank and file
members receive. Are we to assume that districts represented by well-positioned
Members are needier than those represented by less seasoned Members of Congress?
In some appropriations bills, each member of the committee is given an equal
share of the available dollars. Are we to assume here that these districts have
identical needs?

"The truth is, we can try all we want to conjure up some sort of noble pedigree
for the contemporary practice of earmarking, but we are just drinking our own
bathwater if we think the public is buying it. It seems that over that past few
years we've tried to increase the number of earmarks enough so that the plaudits
we hear from earmark recipients will drown out the voices of taxpayers all over
the country who have had enough. It hasn't worked, thank goodness. For every
group that directly benefits from earmarks, there are hundreds who see it as a
transparent gimmick to assure our own reelection.

"Mr. Speaker, our constituents deserve better, and this institution deserves
better than we are giving it. Let's return to the time honored practice of
authorization, appropriation, and oversight that has served us so well."

* For Earmark Reform Floor Speech, visit
http://flake.house.gov/UploadedFiles/Earmark%20Reform%20Floor%20Speech%2007-17-0
7.wmv.

Contact: Matthew Specht, 202/225-2635.

