                       April 1, 2007 Sunday 2:24 AM  EST

STRIVE ACT FOR ARIZONA REPUBLIC

BYLINE: US Fed News

LENGTH: 781  words

DATELINE: MESA, Ariz.


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following column:

I think it's safe to say that there is universal agreement that our nation's
immigration system is broken. Unfortunately, it sometimes feels like that is
where agreement on the issue ends.

Enactment of meaningful immigration-reform legislation will require support from
both Republicans and Democrats. While that may be an explanation for why
Congress has yet to send a bill to the president, it ought not to be an excuse.

I recently introduced a comprehensive immigration-reform bill with Democratic
Congressman Luis Gutierrez of Illinois. Our bill, the STRIVE Act, has four major
components that any serious immigration proposal must have: border security,
interior enforcement, a mechanism for foreign workers to enter the country
legally, and no amnesty for illegal immigrants.

The first and longest section of the bill improves border security. Not all
immigrants enter the country with good intentions. We have to be able to prevent
terrorists, drug smugglers, and others who mean us harm from entering the
country. To that end, the bill increases border personnel, accelerates
technology at the border, requires biometric enhancements to identification
documents, and includes many other measures designed to end the lawlessness at
the border.

The bill strengthens interior enforcement by increasing the penalties and
expanding the crimes associated with illegal immigration. In addition to
stopping illegal immigrants at the border, law enforcement officials need the
resources to pursue those who overstay their visas. The bill also creates a
verification system that allows employers to check a new hire's legal status and
stiffens penalties on employers that usurp the law. With the creation of a legal
framework for foreign workers and the tools to check the status of employees,
employers will have no excuse to flout immigration laws.

Aside from giving illegal aliens a shortcut to a green card, a major failure of
the 1986 immigration-reform bill was its lack of a mechanism for new workers to
enter the country legally, which made the bill outdated on the day it was signed
into law. Repeating this mistake would put us back in the same position we're
currently facing in a decade or two from now.

Under our bill, the program for new workers will respond to our economy's need
for additional workers. We require sufficient steps to ensure that foreign
workers are filling only jobs that cannot be filled by domestic workers.

Workers who demonstrate job qualifications, pass a background check, pay a fee
and satisfy other measures are eligible for a three-year visa, which could be
renewed once. Implementation of the new temporary-worker program would be
conditioned on progress toward securing the border.

Finally, immigrants currently in the country illegally must not be given
amnesty. Under our bill, those here illegally would be forced to pay fines,
undergo background checks, meet English and civics requirements, pay back taxes
and, most importantly, go to the back of the line (not be given a shortcut to a
green card like in 1986) if they wish to adjust their status.

The bill includes a "touchback" provision that would require these illegal
immigrants to leave the country and re-enter legally, registering with the
US-VISIT program as they do.

Some may believe that these punishments are too harsh and that illegal
immigrants will ignore them. However, once a legal framework is in place for
immigrants and border security and interior enforcement have been enhanced, it
will be very difficult for illegal immigrants to live outside the law. Put
simply, it is prohibitively expensive to live anywhere in the United States if
you don't have a job, and registering with the program is the only way to obtain
the documents necessary to work.

While every area of the country is dealing with the negative consequences of
illegal immigration, the costs borne by Arizona's citizens are particularly
acute.

We simply can't afford to continue the status quo. For those concerned about
amnesty, I've got news: We're living it right now. Any proposal that is not
comprehensive in nature will simply ensure that this amnesty - this lack of
consequences for illegal activity - will continue long into the future.

The status quo is something, I think we can all agree, that we've had enough of.

* For STRIVE Summary, visit
http://flake.house.gov/UploadedFiles/STRIVE%20Summary.pdf.

* For STRIVE Overview, visit
http://flake.house.gov/UploadedFiles/STRIVE%20Overview.pdf.

* For STRIVE Text, visit http://flake.house.gov/UploadedFiles/STRIVE%20Act.pdf.

Contact: Matthew Specht, 202/225-2635.

