                       June 20, 2008 Friday 12:13 AM  EST

REP. FLAKE VOTES AGAINST WAR SUPPLEMENTAL SPENDING BILL

BYLINE: US Fed News

LENGTH: 306  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following press release:

Republican Congressman Jeff Flake, who represents Arizona's Sixth District,
voted against the emergency supplemental appropriations bill, which contained
funding for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan as well as funding for other
measures.

The bill was separated into two amendments - the first amendment contained
funding for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and the second amendment
contained funding for an expanded GI benefit, disaster relief, and other
extraneous spending.

Congressman Flake voted against the first amendment because he objected to using
an emergency supplemental bill to fund war operations. An emergency supplemental
bill is not subject to the budget constraints and authorization that it would
receive under the normal budget process.

"We're in the sixth year of this war," said Flake. "We knew last year that we'd
need to fund the war this year, just as we know this year that we'll need to
fund the war next year. There's no reason why this funding shouldn't go through
the normal budget process. Designating it as 'emergency spending' just isn't an
honest way to spend money."

Congressman Flake also voted against the second amendment, which included
numerous extraneous spending items not directly related to operations in Iraq
and Afghanistan. The amendment appropriated over $21 billion and included
funding for an expanded GI benefit, an extension of unemployment benefits, a
moratorium on certain Medicaid regulations, disaster relief for floods and
tornadoes in the Midwest, international disaster assistance, military
construction projects, levees and housing vouchers in Louisiana, science
research, Food and Drug Administration operations, Bureau of Prisons costs, and
U.S. Census cost overruns.

Contact: Matthew Specht, 202/225-2635.

