                       July 22, 2005 Friday 2:13 AM  EST

REP. FLAKE OFFERS FOUR AMENDMENTS TO PATRIOT ACT REAUTHORIZATION

BYLINE: US Fed News

LENGTH: 368  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following press release:

Arizona Rep. Jeff Flake, a member of the House Judiciary Committee, today
offered four amendments during the House of Representative's consideration of
reauthorization of the PATRIOT Act.

The first amendment requires the Director of the FBI to personally approve any
FBI request for library or bookstore records under the section of the bill that
allows the FBI to obtain such records. Another amendment more explicitly defines
domestic terrorism under the section regarding the seizing of assets, changing
the "domestic terrorism" definition to "federal crimes of terrorism."

An additional amendment precludes judges from preventing someone from receiving
notification about a home search by the government simply because it would delay
a trial to notify the target.

The last amendment allows recipients of national security letters to be able to
consult with an attorney, and also allows them to also challenge national
security letters in court.

"Some of the most contentious fights in Congress come when the federal
government must balance two responsibilities that can conflict each other, such
as preserving civil liberties and effectively fighting domestic terrorism," said
Flake. "The process that has created this bill exemplifies the way Congress
ought to work. Debate was thorough and the process was fair, and I believe that
it has created a bill that makes the country safer while protecting civil
liberties."

Congressman Flake worked with other members of the House Judiciary Committee in
2001 to add sunset provisions to the more controversial portions of the PATRIOT
Act, encouraging law enforcement officials to use the new power prudently and
giving Congress a chance to monitor the law's use. A ten-year sunset provision
has been added to this bill.

This year, Congressman Flake has chaired the PATRIOT Act Reform Caucus, a
bipartisan group of House Members formed to improve the PATRIOT Act by
protecting the safety and security of the nation, while ensuring that the law
does not violate our constitutional civil liberties or diminish our system of
checks and balances.

Contact: Matthew Specht, 202/225-2635.

