                      March 22, 2007 Thursday 4:32 AM  EST

STRIVE ACT OF 2007 - AT A GLANCE

BYLINE: US Fed News

LENGTH: 578  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following press release:

Securing our borders

The STRIVE Act increases enforcement personnel on the border. It also requires a
thorough evaluation of information-sharing, international and
federal-state-local coordination, technology, anti-smuggling, and other border
security initiatives to ensure that we are doing everything possible to bolster
border security. The Gutierrez-Flake bill also calls for the development of
multilateral partnerships to establish a North American security perimeter and
improve border security on the Mexican southern border.

Strengthening interior enforcement

The Gutierrez-Flake bill increases penalties for crimes committed by immigrants,
including those related to smuggling and gang activities. The legislation
includes provisions to combat passport and visa fraud, and it increases
penalties for trafficking in fake documents. The bill also stiffens penalties
related to illegal immigration.

Bolstering employment verification

The STRIVE Act sets up an employment verification system whereby employers would
be required to confirm each potential employee's eligibility to work. The new
system would eventually apply to all workers and all new hires, and would be
rolled out in phases, beginning with critical infrastructure employers and large
employers. The legislation increases penalties against employers who do not
comply with the new system.

New worker program that reflects realities of our workforce

The Gutierrez-Flake bill sets up a new worker program for low-skilled workers,
when a U.S. worker cannot be found to fill a needed job. It addresses the
failures and problems with past worker programs and charts a new course that
better protects workers, while more effectively and efficiently meeting the
needs of employers. The program mandates strong workplace protections. In
addition, employers would be required to provide foreign workers with the same
wages and working conditions enjoyed by U.S. workers. Workers also would have
the ability to change jobs and eventually get on a path to citizenship, if they
choose. The worker visa would be valid for 3 years and renewable once.

Reforming a broken visa system in a way that protects families

The STRIVE Act overhauls the family-based and employment-based immigration
system to reduce backlogs and inefficiencies. The legislation provides
opportunities for high skilled workers to come to, and remain in, the U.S. It
also addresses employment needs in shortage occupations, such as nursing.

Earned legalization for hardworking, deserving individuals

Under the legislation, undocumented workers, who pay a fine and pass extensive
and thorough background examinations, would be eligible for conditional status
with work and travel authorization for 6 years. If, during those six years, the
worker remains employed, continues to be an upstanding member of the community,
learns English and civics, and pays any owed taxes, they could be eligible to
adjust their status if they leave the country and re-enter legally.

The Gutierrez-Flake bill also includes the DREAM Act and AgJobs, as introduced
in the 110th Congress.

Miscellaneous

The bill also would increase resources for the immigration court system,
provides relief for immigrant victims of the 9-11 attacks and their families,
and it facilitates naturalization for members of the armed forces.

Contact: Matthew Specht, 202/225-2635.

