                      March 22, 2007 Thursday 4:29 AM  EST

REPS. GUTIERREZ, FLAKE UNVEIL BIPARTISAN COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM
LEGISLATION

BYLINE: US Fed News

LENGTH: 568  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following press release:

Reps. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) and Jeff Flake (R-AZ.) Thursday unveiled new
legislation designed to fix our nation's badly broken immigration system. The
legislation is the culmination of years of hard work, in-depth discussions and
thoughtful negotiations by Reps. Gutierrez and Flake.

"The bill we are discussing today is all about security-homeland security,
family security and economic security," Gutierrez said. "It will allow us to
better protect our borders and reform an immigration system that is hampering
businesses, hurting families and harming communities."

"Our current immigration laws are at odds with reality," said Flake. "This bill
addresses that problem by bolstering border security, increasing interior
enforcement, and creating a temporary worker program that's enforceable and
fair."

The bill, the STRIVE Act of 2007 (Security Through Regularized Immigration and a
Vibrant Economy), would overhaul the current immigration system in a way that
better protects and enforces our borders, respects the hard work and
contributions of immigrants to our country and reflects the realities of our
workforce and the needs of our communities.

If enacted, the Gutierrez-Flake bill would ensure that we have an immigration
system in place that meets the security and economic needs of our nation by
creating laws that are tough, enforceable and realistic.

Congressman Joseph Crowley (D-NY) said, "It is time that we pass comprehensive
immigration reform that balances our nation's security with a realistic and
humane approach to dealing with the 11 million undocumented individuals already
in the United States. This bipartisan legislation enforces accountability and
strong border controls, while offering an earned path to citizenship to those
who have contributed to our society through hard work. I thank Congressmen Luis
Gutierrez and Jeff Flake for renewing their cooperation on this issue so we can
finally move forward in fixing our broken immigration system."

"This is good, common sense legislation that addresses border security and the
millions of undocumented workers in our country," said Congressman George
Radanovich (R-CA). "I am particularly pleased to see the AgJOBS language
included in this bill so our nation's farmers get the help they need to put food
on our tables."

"As the son of an immigrant and a resident of Chicago, I know first-hand, that
immigrants make this country strong. Those who have lived in this country for
years - who have held jobs, started families and established roots in American
communities - deserve the opportunity to earn their citizenship," said
Congressman Rahm Emanuel (D-IL). "This legislation enhances protections for
immigrants already living and working in the U.S., provides for effective
security enforcement, assists in family reunification, encourages legality at
our borders, and most importantly treats all immigrants with the dignity and
respect they deserve. I am proud to join members from both sides of the aisle in
introducing this reform."

"Only a comprehensive immigration reform plan like the STRIVE Act will help us
achieve an effective, lasting, and viable solution to the immigration issues
facing our nation," said Congressman Luis G. Fortu?o (R-PR), chair of the
Congressional Hispanic Conference.

Contact: Matthew Specht, 202/225-2635.

