                      January 23, 2006 Monday 3:49 AM  EST

REP. FLAKE SENDS LETTER TO SPEAKER HASTERT OUTLINING STANDARDS FOR EARMARK
REFORM

BYLINE: US Fed News

LENGTH: 604  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following press release:

Republican Rep. Jeff Flake, who represents Arizona's Sixth District, today sent
a letter to House Speaker Dennis Hastert outlining standards for earmark reform.

Congressman Flake and Senator John McCain of Arizona have introduced bipartisan
legislation (H.R. 1642) that requires that earmarks be included in the actual
text of spending bills, rather than the committee or conference reports that
accompany bills. This would give Members of Congress an opportunity to eliminate
projects that are wasteful or unnecessary when bills come to the House floor.

Congressman Flake is concerned with recent statements by House Leadership
implying that earmark reform can be accomplished by attaching members' names to
earmarks.

"Anyone who thinks that members are averse to claiming credit for securing
earmarks hasn't been reading his own press releases," said Flake.

"Many of the earmark reform proposals being discussed come nowhere near getting
to the root of the problem. We're far beyond being able to make a few minor
fixes to the earmarking process; the system needs an overhaul."

Congressman Flake's letter to Speaker Hastert is attached.

January 23, 2006

Dear Speaker Hastert:

I am pleased to learn earmark reform will likely be part of a package of reforms
we will consider when we return to work in February. Thank you for making this a
priority.

Meaningful reform must provide for transparency and accountability. I am
concerned that some proposals being considered don't meet that standard.

Acting Majority Leader Blunt has suggested that we reform the earmark process by
having members of Congress attach their names to earmark requests. Even a
cursory glance at press releases issued by members after the passage of major
appropriations will reveal that having members claim credit for earmarks has
never been a problem.

The problem is that most of these earmarks are added at the last minute, often
in the middle of the night, when few can see them until it's too late. Because
these earmarks are almost always contained in committee and conference reports,
rather than in the spending bills themselves, they cannot be challenged even if
they are discovered. Simply requiring that names be attached to earmarks will do
nothing to change this secrecy.

You recently suggested that letters to appropriators requesting earmarks should
be made public. That would be a positive step but, in and of itself, it would do
little to change the status quo. As long as we allow members to hide earmark
requests in committee and conference reports, there will be little incentive for
members to write such letters.

To use a concrete example, even if other members suspected that Duke Cunningham
was being bribed to get the earmarks he secured, they still could not have
challenged those earmarks. Publicizing earmark request letters would not change
this process.

I am pleased to note that my legislation to require that earmarks be included in
bills (where they are subject to debate on the House floor) is being cosponsored
by two of the three candidates for Majority Leader. I would encourage you to add
your support to this effort.

Over the past several years we have allowed the earmarking process to grow out
of control. Earmarks have become the currency of corruption. We can't allow this
to continue.

I look forward to discussing this issue in person with you, and will contact
your office to see if a mutually agreeable time can be arranged.

Sincerely yours,

JEFF FLAKE

Member of Congress

Contact: Matthew Specht, 202/225-2635.

