                       May 23, 2006 Tuesday 5:15 AM  EST

REP. FLAKE ATTEMPTS TO SHED LIGHT ON EARMARK PROCESS

BYLINE: US Fed News

LENGTH: 601  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following statement:

Republican Rep. Jeff Flake, who represents Arizona's Sixth District, today will
deliver the following statement on the House floor regarding his amendments to
effectively eliminate earmarks in the Agriculture Appropriations bill:

"Mr. Speaker, today we will engage in a debate that has been a long time in
coming. I plan to offer several amendments to this bill to block funding for a
series of Member earmarks that are contained in the committee report that
accompanies this bill.

"Let me point out that the House has already voted, in the lobby reform bill a
few weeks ago, to require that Members attach their names to their earmarks. Yet
this committee report has come to the floor with more than 400 earmarks, and no
names.

"Let me state from the outset that I am under no illusion that I can succeed in
blocking funding for any of these earmarks we will discuss. I am well acquainted
with the process of logrolling, where one Member agrees to support another
Member's earmark if that Member will agree to do the same. I suspect that
logrolling will prevail here today.

"But it is about time that we provide a little window into the process. Is it
the federal government's responsibility to recruit dairy families from other
regions to move to Northeast Iowa, as one of the earmarks we will discuss today
purports to do? Is the need so great this year to fund the National Grape and
Wine Initiative that we should add $100,000 to the debt owed by future
generations? Since our responsibility as Members of Congress is to prioritize
limited resources, do we really want to tell taxpayers that we believe that
spending $180,000 on Hydroponic Tomato Production is more pressing than other
issues?

"I expect that a few of the amendments I will offer today will be successfully
blocked with a point of order. The reason: We have no documentation that the
federal agency that will fund the project knows anything about the project that
is being funded. To successfully challenge the earmark requires an assumption
that the agency is familiar with the project, otherwise we are legislating on an
appropriation bill - a violation of our rules. The incentive, therefore, for
Members looking to protect their earmarks is to be either vague or silent about
the project's goals and its oversight.

"Let's think about that for a minute. How are we supposed to exercise oversight
of these earmarked projects? Who is to be held accountable? Not the government
agency. By upholding the point of order we are stipulating that the agency might
as well not even know the project exists.

"In the end, since rank-and-file Members can't even challenge these earmarks
without being subject to a point of order, and the agencies don't know anything
about them, and since we don't even know who requested the earmark in the first
place, the only individuals who have any oversight function are selected Members
and staff of the Appropriations Committee.

"Mr. Speaker, it does not speak well for us as legislators when the first and
last documentation of these earmarks is found in Members' press releases. I'd
like to think we can do better than that. I think that all of us who were
elected to this august body had higher aspirations than to grovel for the crumbs
that fall from appropriator's tables.

"We need to return to the process of authorization, appropriation and oversight.
That is what this branch of government is supposed to do. We diminish ourselves
and our office when we stray from this course."

Contact: Matthew Specht, 202/225-2635.

