                      April 26, 2007 Thursday 2:21 AM  EST

STRIVE ACT FOR THE HILL

BYLINE: US Fed News

LENGTH: 745  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following column:

Immigration reform is a contentious issue. The interns in my office can attest
to that. Every time I do an interview on the issue, my dutiful interns can
expect a deluge of phone calls expressing enthusiastic disagreement, to put it
kindly, with some of my positions.

As Congress prepares to take up immigration reform legislation this year, we
need to remember that the way in which we conduct this debate will have an
enormous impact on our ability to succeed. A debate that is civil and respectful
is absolutely necessary if we hope to solve this problem.

Rhetoric on immigration reform has a tendency to get overheated (that goes for
folks on both sides of the issue). That rhetoric has a way of making the gulf
between the two sides seem much larger than it is. Frankly, there is quite a lot
that we can agree on.

Congressman Luis Gutierrez (D-Ill.) and I have introduced comprehensive
immigration reform legislation, the STRIVE Act, that we believe addresses
concerns shared by us all. It tackles the major components necessary for reform
to be effective: border security, interior enforcement, a mechanism for foreign
workers to enter the country legally, and no amnesty for illegal immigrants.

The first section of the bill improves border security. While the majority of
those entering the country simply want to work, some have sinister motives. We
need to be able to prevent terrorists, drug smugglers, and others who wish us
harm from entering the country. The bill augments border personnel, accelerates
the use of technology at the border, strengthens biometric requirements for
identification documents, and includes many other measures designed to end the
current lawlessness at the border.

Of course, many illegal immigrants did not sneak across the border at all; they
simply overstayed a visa. Strengthening interior enforcement is as critical as
increasing border security. The bill creates a verification system that allows
employers to check a new hire's legal status and stiffens penalties on employers
who break the law. With the creation of a legal framework for foreign workers
and the tools to check the status of employees, employers will have no excuse to
ignore immigration laws.

In addition to granting amnesty to illegal immigrants, a major failure of the
1986 immigration reform bill was its lack of a mechanism for new workers to
enter the country legally, which made the bill obsolete on the day it was
signed. Failure to include a program for new workers will only leave a future
Congress to deal with a mess we have created, just as we deal with the '86
bill's deficiencies now.

Under our bill, the program for new workers will respond to our economy's need
for additional workers. We require the employer to take sufficient steps to
ensure that foreign workers are only filling jobs that cannot be filled by
domestic workers. Workers who demonstrate job qualifications, pass a background
check, pay a fee, and satisfy other measures are eligible for a three-year visa,
which could be renewed once. Implementation of the new temporary-worker program
would be conditional on progress securing the border.

Finally, immigrants currently in the country illegally must not be given
amnesty. Under our bill, those in the country illegally would be forced to pay
fines, undergo background checks, meet English-language and civics requirements,
pay back taxes, and, most importantly, go to the back of the line (not be given
a shortcut to a green card like in 1986) if they wish to adjust their status.
The bill also includes a "touchback" provision that would require these illegal
immigrants to leave the country and reenter legally, registering with the
US-VISIT program as they do.

President Bush deserves praise for his tone on immigration reform. He has
consistently reminded participants in this debate that all human beings,
regardless of nationality, deserve respect. I hope that, as we begin work on
immigration reform legislation, we remember that this includes people who may
not agree with us on the finer points of the issue. My interns will appreciate
it.

* For STRIVE Summary, visit
http://flake.house.gov/UploadedFiles/STRIVE%20Summary.pdf.

* For STRIVE Overview, visit
http://flake.house.gov/UploadedFiles/STRIVE%20Overview.pdf.

* For STRIVE Text, visit http://flake.house.gov/UploadedFiles/STRIVE%20Act.pdf.

Contact: Matthew Specht, 202/225-2635.

