                     April 28, 2010 Wednesday 6:54 PM  EST

REP. FLAKE, HODES DISAPPOINTED IN ETHICS COMMITTEE'S REFUSAL TO PROVIDE FACTS ON
PMA PROBE

LENGTH: 368  words


WASHINGTON, April 27 -- Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following
press release:

Congressmen Jeff Flake (R-AZ) and Paul Hodes (D-NH) today expressed
disappointment in the House Ethics Committee's refusal to detail basic facts,
such as how many witnesses were interviewed and subpoenas issued, regarding
their investigation of the PMA Group.

"I asked the Ethics Committee to provide basic details about their PMA
investigation in the hope that more information would give House Members and the
public more confidence in the Committee's work," said Flake. "Unfortunately,
their refusal to provide even basic facts, like how many subpoenas were issued
during the course of the investigation, has had the opposite effect."

"Given that the Committee's PMA report conceded that there is a widespread
perception of a quid pro quo between earmarks and campaign contributions, it was
particularly troubling that the Committee would assert that it does not have
jurisdiction to institute changes in House practices. Let's not forget that the
Ethics Committee's real name is the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct.
If the Committee won't even set a minimum standard for House practices, who
will?"

"There are still far too many questions about the alleged pay-for-play earmark
scheme involving Members of Congress and Washington lobbyists," said Hodes. "It
is simply unacceptable that we still do not know whether these very serious
allegations were investigated to the fullest. We need to hold politicians feet
to the fire and hold them accountable for how they spend our tax dollars."

In view of the House Ethics Committee's refusal to shed light on their PMA
investigation, Congressman Flake and Democratic Congressman Paul Hodes of New
Hampshire will ask the Office of Congressional Ethics to publicly release the
200,000 pages of documents they turned over to the Ethics Committee as part of
their PMA investigation. Congressmen Flake and Hodes believe the release of
these documents would spur the House to change its rules governing the
appropriateness of awarding earmarks to campaign contributors. For more
information please contact: Sarabjit Jagirdar, Email:-
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

