                      August 28, 2007 Tuesday 1:07 AM  EST

TRANSPORTATION EARMARKS FOR ARIZONA REPUBLIC

BYLINE: US Fed News

LENGTH: 760  words

DATELINE: MESA, Ariz.


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following column:

In the wake of the Minnesota bridge tragedy, the response from Congress and the
Administration has ranged from measured to knee jerk. Transportation Secretary
Mary Peters' call to review the National Bridge Inspection Program is an example
of the former and the House Transportation Committee chairman and others calling
for a hike in the federal gasoline tax is emblematic of the latter.

With more than one in ten bridges reported as structurally deficient, there is
no denying that we have considerable infrastructure needs across the country.
With mounting pressure to spend billions on infrastructure and even raise taxes
to do it, prudence and sound judgment should accompany this sense of urgency. We
need look no further than the federal response to Hurricane Katrina, complete
with thousands of trailers in an Arkansas pasture and debit cards used to
purchase designer purses, to see the dangers of Congress simply shoveling
dollars at a problem.

It is difficult to take seriously the argument that Congress is not spending
enough money. According to the Congressional Budget Office, federal spending on
infrastructure will approach $80 billion this year. The problem is not that we
are spending too little, but rather that Congress puts strings on state
transportation funds. Simply look at the 6,300 earmarks, worth more than $24
billion dollars, stuffed into the 2005 transportation bill. These particular
earmarks are more troublesome than the usual raft of wasteful pork spending -
and not just because of their sheer number.

The funds for these earmarks actually come out of the federal dollars that are
available to states for transportation projects, limiting their flexibility to
address priorities that they have identified. The goal of many Members of
Congress in seeking earmarks is to be able to send out a press release or cut a
ribbon, showing the folks back home how much they are doing for their district.
Of course, these transportation earmarks end up short changing the state's
transportation funds.

While the "Bridge to Nowhere" was certainly the most famous of these earmarks,
it at least resembled a transportation project. The most recent transportation
authorization was replete with earmarks for bike paths, hiking trails, visitor
centers, museums, beautification work, and other suspect projects that seem even
more suspect given the events of the past months.

For example, Minnesota received more than 140 earmarks in the highway bill worth
nearly half a billion dollars. According to a recent review, these included
nearly $1.6 million for bike trails, more than $1.5 million for streetscaping,
and more than $1 million for new visitor centers. With the state's priorities
undoubtedly shifting in light of recent events, Minnesota should have the
flexibility to use its transportation funds as it needs to rather than on
projects such as these.

Obviously, this problem is not limited to Minnesota. Congressional Quarterly
recently highlighted that nearly all of the fifty most heavily traveled and
structurally deficient bridges are concentrated in Los Angeles and San
Francisco. My guess is that California has better uses for transportation
dollars than the $5 million dollar earmark for bikeways and trails in the Golden
Gate National Recreation Area or the $2.3 million dollar earmark for landscaping
enhancements for "aesthetic purposes" along the Ronald Reagan Freeway in Simi
Valley. These earmarks are even more egregious when you realize that California,
like Arizona, is a "donor state," meaning it receives less than a dollar worth
of federal transportation funding for every dollar it pays in federal gas tax.

We can all agree that the Minnesota bridge collapse should serve as a wake-up
call. Congress cannot continue to turn a blind eye to pork barrel politics that
all too often reward the districts of powerful Members of Congress and tie the
hands of state transportation officials. With this in mind, I plan to introduce
legislation that will allow states the flexibility to use their transportation
dollars as they see fit.

Both President Bush and Secretary Peters have both wisely dismissed calls for
raising the gas tax and have called Congress out for squandering much-needed
transportation funding on earmarks. The last thing we need is to raise the gas
tax, which will simply give Washington politicians even more money to spend on
earmarked projects.

We've been down that road before.

Contact: Matthew Specht, 202/225-2635.

