                       July 28, 2009 Tuesday 2:05 PM  EST

REP. FLAKE FILES OVER 540 AMENDMENTS TO DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS BILL

LENGTH: 305  words


WASHINGTON, July 27 -- Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following
press release:

Republican Congressman Jeff Flake, who represents Arizona's Sixth District,
today announced that he has filed over 540 amendments to the defense
appropriations bill. The House of Representatives is scheduled to consider the
bill this week. The defense appropriations bill contains 1,087 earmarks worth
$2.7 billion, with about 540 of those earmarks worth $1.3 billion going directly
to private companies without competition.

Congressman Flake has filed an amendment for each earmark going to a private
company, which is essentially a no-bid contract. "Simply put, Members of
Congress should not have the ability to award no-bid contracts," said Flake.
"Even worse, many times the recipients of these earmarks are campaign
contributors. The practice has created an ethical cloud over Congress, and it
needs to end." Breaking with tradition, the defense appropriations bill is
likely to come up this year under a closed rule, meaning that the House Rules
Committee must approve any amendments before they can be debated on the House
floor. "These earmarks receive scant scrutiny by the House Appropriations
Committee - the Committee's markup of the bill lasted all of 18 minutes - so
challenging earmarks on the House floor is the only inspection that most of
these no-bid contracts will receive." Among the earmarks in the bill are over 70
no-bid contracts for former clients of the PMA Group, a now-defunct lobbying
firm currently under investigation by both the Justice Department and the House
Ethics Committee. "Given the way this bill's been earmarked, you'd never know
that serious ethical questions have been raised about this process."For more
information please contact: Sarabjit Jagirdar, Email:-
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

