                   September 28, 2006 Thursday 12:55 AM  EST

REP. FLAKE OPPOSES ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE MODERNIZATION ACT

BYLINE: US Fed News

LENGTH: 389  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following statement:

Rep. Jeff Flake, who represents Arizona's Sixth District, today made the
following statement in opposition to the Electronic Surveillance Modernization
Act:

"Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to H.R. 5825.

In 1978, Congress passed a seminal piece of legislation called the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Act, better known as FISA. This Act recognized that
while the President has inherent authority to conduct electric surveillance to
protect American citizens, Congress has clear authority to regulate that
surveillance.

There have been many technological changes over the past 28 years, and FISA has
been amended many times to adapt to those changes.

Now we in Congress are confronted with the knowledge that the executive branch
has chosen to conduct surveillance outside of the strictures imposed by FISA. We
must now choose whether to allow warrantless surveillance to continue, or
whether we should bring the Terrorist Surveillance Program, and any other
programs that might be in operation, under FISA's authority. If we do not, we
will essentially have two categories of surveillance programs: one on the books,
and one off the books.

Perhaps the existence of FISA has made us complacent. We have not been
confronted over the past three decades with reports of abuse by the executive
branch. But prior to FISA's passage, such abuses were legion. The Church
Committee of the mid-1970s identified instances of abuse of the executive
branch's surveillance powers that were so egregious that FISA was determined to
be necessary.

Do we want to return to the pre-FISA era? I would submit that we should not. Yet
the bill we will vote on tonight will ensure that surveillance will continue to
be gathered outside of FISA, effectively returning us to that era.

As I have said before, the acid test for Republicans voting on this issue should
be as follows: Would I more jealously guard the congressional prerogative to
regulate the President's inherent authority to conduct warrantless surveillance
if the current occupant of the White House did not share my party affiliation?

If the answer is 'yes,' then it is our obligation to vote against the underlying
bill and vote instead for the motion to recommit."

Contact: Matthew Specht, 202/225-2635.

