                      April 29, 2005 Friday 12:44 AM  EST

Member's Bio: Rep. FLAKE, Jeff, R-Ariz. (6th CD)

BYLINE: US Fed News

LENGTH: 626  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), has posted the following biography on the
members' Web site:

Jeff Flake, presently serving his second term in Congress, represents the Sixth
Congressional District of Arizona. This district includes parts of Mesa and
Chandler and all of Gilbert, Queen Creek, and Apache Junction. Jeff serves on
three committees in the House of Representatives: the Committee on the
Judiciary, including the Commercial and Administrative Law subcommittee and the
Immigration, Claims, and Border Security subcommittee; the Committee on
International Relations, including the Asia and the Pacific subcommittee and the
Africa subcommittee; and the Committee on Resources, including the Forest and
Forest Health Subcommittee.

Since taking office, Jeff has been active on a number of issues. One of his top
priorities has been tax relief. Consequently, several of his first pieces of
legislation were efforts to maximize President Bush's tax relief package in
2001. His next challenge will be working to decrease taxes on dividends and
capital gains in order to spur investment and fuel economic growth.

Just as he did in Arizona, Jeff has continued in Washington to work for local
control, choice, and competition in education. His very first piece of
legislation introduced in the House of Representatives was designed to ensure
that the federal government does not discriminate against innovative educational
programs like those at the Thomas J. Pappas School for the Homeless in Phoenix.
Jeff also introduced legislation to give states more freedom to replace failed
bilingual education programs with innovative alternatives. Both of these
important measures were adopted as part of President Bush's education plan and
are now law.

Jeff has also been one of Congress's most outspoken advocates of free trade. In
fact, a report conducted by the Cato Institute found that no other Member of the
House of Representatives voted more consistently against trade barriers and
trade subsidies than Jeff.

Through his position on the Judiciary and International Relations Committees,
Jeff has been working to find solutions to Arizona's ongoing problems with
illegal immigration. Jeff has been one of the House's most outspoken advocates
of a temporary worker program and will work during his second term to establish
such a program.

Jeff has also introduced commonsense legislation to reduce the threat of
devastating wildfires, such as the Rodeo-Chediski fire that burned 469,000 acres
in the White Mountains.

Jeff is a fifth-generation Arizonan, born and raised on a ranch in Snowflake,
Arizona (the town was named, in part, after Jeff's great-great grandfather).
After serving a Mormon mission in southern Africa, Jeff graduated from Brigham
Young University, where he received a B.A. in International Relations and an
M.A. in Political Science. More importantly, it was at BYU that Jeff met his
wife, Cheryl.

In 1987, Jeff started his career at a public affairs firm in Washington, D.C.
Soon thereafter, Jeff moved to the southern African nation of Namibia. As the
Executive Director of the Foundation for Democracy, a foundation monitoring
Namibia's independence process, he saw the nation usher in freedom and
democracy.

In 1992, Jeff and his family moved back to Arizona where he was named Executive
Director of the Goldwater Institute. In this role, Jeff worked to promote a
conservative philosophy of less government, more freedom, and individual
responsibility.

Jeff and Cheryl have been married 17 years and live in Mesa with their five
children.

This bio was available on the Member's Web site on April 29.

For news releases and other information about this member of Congress, please
see House members section on this web site.

