                     February 3, 2005 Thursday 2:05 AM  EST

INDIVIDUAL SOCIAL SECURITY INVESTMENT PROGRAM ACT OF 2005

BYLINE: US Fed News

LENGTH: 936  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following press release:

Individual Social Security Investment Program Act of 2005

1. Workers born on or after January 1, 1951 would be allowed to divert their
half of the payroll tax (6.2 percentage points of Social Security wages) to
individually owned, privately invested accounts. Those who choose to do so would
agree to forgo all future retirement benefits under the traditional Social
Security system (except survivor's and disability benefits), and instead receive
a Recognition Bond (see # 3 below). Workers born after 1983 would be required to
enter the private account system.

2. The worker's 6.2% of salary would initially be deposited into a collective
account (Tier I), that is then annually directed to each person's individual
account (Tier II). The personal, Tier II accounts could be invested in a limited
range of privately managed mutual funds under the terms established by a newly
created Social Security Board. After a worker's Tier II account reaches a
threshold value of $10,000, he could move money to a Tier III account offering a
wide range of funds. Qualifications for Tier III investment options and fund
managers would also be determined by the Social Security Board.

3. Workers who choose the individual account option would receive a Recognition
Bond based on the pro-rata percentage of future benefits they have earned as of
the date on which they opt into the reformed system. Those bonds, redeemable at
the worker's 67th birthday, would be fully tradable in secondary markets prior
to their redemption date. If a worker chooses to sell his Recognition Bond, then
all proceeds would have to be deposited in the worker's individual account.

4. A worker who chooses private accounts must purchase for his retirement, an
inflation-adjusted annuity at least equal to 100% of the poverty level. A
Federal government guarantee will insure that the combination of the Recognition
Bond and accumulated savings in his personal investment account are sufficient
to purchase this annuity.

5. If, at anytime, a worker has accumulated enough savings in his personal
account to purchase a retirement annuity that is greater than or equal to 100%
of the poverty level, he may do so. After such an annuity is purchased, the
worker's annual deposits into Tier I could be rebated rather than being
deposited in Tier II or III, making further participation in the personal
account system voluntary.

6. The employer's share of payroll tax (6.2%) would be used to pay transition
costs and to fund disability and survivor benefits.

7. Those who wish to remain in the traditional Social Security system would be
free to do so. However, beginning in 2013, the formula used to calculate the
initial benefit level (only for those people who begin to collect benefits after
2013) would gradually be adjusted to index those future benefits to price
inflation rather than national wage growth. This transition would occur
incrementally over a 30-year period.

Frequently Asked Questions

Who would be affected by the reformed system?

* People already retired, or near retirement, do not see any change in benefits.
(55 and over).

* Workers between the ages of 22 and 55 have the option of joining the personal
account system.

* People younger than 22 must join the system.

How do people get benefits that they have already accrued, before joining the
personal accounts system?

* A Recognition Bond is issued to cover benefits that have already been accrued.

The bond matures and becomes redeemable on the 67th birthday.

The bond is tradable on the market. If sold, proceeds go into personal account.

This is an asset that you own.

If someone selects the personal accounts option, how does it work?

* Employee's share of the payroll tax (6.2%) goes into personal account.

* During the year, all participants' contributions go collectively into a broad
diversification fund, called Tier 1.

* Annually, funds are deposited from Tier I into each person's individual
account, known as Tier 2.

Tier 2: Limited range of mutual funds.

* Once the balance in Tier II exceeds $10,000, people can move money into Tier
3.

Tier 3: Wide range of funds.

* The employer's share of payroll tax (6.2%) is used to pay for transition costs
and fund survivor and disability benefits.

How will the system ensure that people will have enough money for their
retirement?

* Participants in the personal accounts program must purchase an
inflation-adjusted annuity that is at least equal to 100% of the poverty level
for their retirement.

* Once the annuity is purchased, they have 2 options:

Option 1: Annual deposits into Tier I can continue to be directed to Tier II and
III, further growing the account.

Option 2: The worker may decide to discontinue, and their deposits into Tier I
will be rebated.

* A federal guarantee ensures that the sum of the Recognition Bond + accumulated
savings in account will be enough to at least purchase this annuity.

If someone declines the personal accounts option, how does it work?

* Those who wish to remain in the traditional Social Security system would be
free to do so.

* However, beginning in 2012, the formula used to calculate the initial benefit
level would gradually be adjusted to index those future benefits to price
inflation rather than national wage growth. This transition would occur
incrementally over a 30-year period.

* This recalculation to price inflation would slow down the rate of growth of
benefits. In other words, benefits would still grow each year, just not as fast.

Contact: Matthew Specht, 202/225-2635.

