                     January 5, 2006 Thursday 12:23 AM  EST

REP. FLAKE REITERATES CALL FOR EARMARK REFORM

BYLINE: US Fed News

LENGTH: 624  words

DATELINE: MESA, Ariz.


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following press release:

Republican Rep. Jeff Flake, who represents the Arizona's Sixth District, today
reiterated his call for reforming the practice of earmarking. Earmarks are
spending items slipped into appropriations bills without appropriate
congressional oversight.

In a letter to Speaker Dennis Hastert, Congressman Flake asked that earmark
reform precede efforts to reform the practice of lobbying: "While lobbying
reform should be considered, doing so without first putting our own House in
order would do more to feed public cynicism than restore public confidence."

Congressman Flake has introduced bipartisan legislation (H.R. 1642) that
requires that earmarks be included in the actual text of spending bills, rather
than the committee or conference reports that accompany bills. This would give
Members of Congress an opportunity to eliminate projects that are wasteful or
unnecessary when bills come to the House floor.

Senator John McCain of Arizona has introduced companion legislation in the
Senate.

"Unfortunately, we Republicans have taken earmarking to an unprecedented level.
It's now our responsibility to clean it up," said Flake.

Congressman Flake's letter to Speaker Hastert is attached.

January 5, 2006

Dear Speaker Hastert:

It is no secret that over the past several months our reputation as a governing
majority has taken a beating. It is clear that continuing media coverage of
indictments, possible indictments, plea deals, tainted campaign contributions,
etc., has severely eroded the public trust.

While some of what has occurred can be attributed to partisan politics, much of
it cannot. We have allowed, and in some cases fostered, an atmosphere that
breeds corruption. I am speaking specifically of the escalating practice of
"earmarking." With the number and dollar value of earmarks more than quadrupling
over the past decade, pork-barrel spending has become an unfortunate hallmark of
our Republican majority.

While the ability of members of Congress to designate, or "earmark" funding for
specific projects that benefit his or her district, or specific institutions and
individuals, is not new, the scope and scale of the practice today is
unprecedented. Jack Abramoff reportedly referred to the Appropriations Committee
as a "favor factory." No one who has seen the process firsthand, as we have,
would honestly dispute his characterization.

As you consider various proposals over the coming months intended to restore
public trust in this institution, I would encourage you put reforming the
practice of earmarking at the top of this year's agenda. There is already some
discussion about additional restrictions and enhanced disclosure for lobbyists.
This may well be needed, but it is peripheral reform at best. We first have to
look at our own conduct.

As you know, I have introduced legislation, H.R. 1642, which would prohibit
federal agencies from funding earmarks unless they are contained in the actual
legislative language of a bill. This would allow earmarks appearing in committee
reports to be amended on the House floor, which is not allowed under current
practice. It would also provide point-of-order protection to prevent the waiving
of House rules with regard to attaching non-germane spending (i.e. earmarks
contained in neither the House or Senate spending bill) in the conference
report.

Again, while lobbying reform should be considered, doing so without first
putting our own House in order would do more to feed public cynicism than
restore public confidence.

I look forward to working with you on reforming the practice of earmarking.

Sincerely,

JEFF FLAKE

Member of Congress

Contact: Matthew Specht, 202/225-2635.

