                      April 6, 2005 Wednesday 5:48 AM  EST

REP. FLAKE SENDS LETTER TO BUSH URGING HIM TO OPPOSE EARMARKS IN HOMELAND
SECURITY SPENDING BILLS

BYLINE: US Fed News

LENGTH: 429  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following press release:

Arizona Rep. Jeff Flake, who represents the state's Sixth District, today sent a
letter to President Bush urging him to oppose the addition of earmarks in the
homeland security spending bill.

Since Congress begun funding the Department of Homeland Security through a
separate spending bill, earmarks have been excluded.

"If Congress begins to earmark homeland security funding, we would not only open
the door for wasteful and unnecessary spending, but we would essentially rob the
Department of Homeland Security of the flexibility that they need to effectively
combat terrorism," said Flake.

"Earmarking homeland security funding is not only a threat to fiscal security,
but it could be a real threat to national security as well."

A copy of the letter is attached.

April 6, 2005

President George W. Bush

The White House

1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW

Washington, DC 20502

Dear Mr. President:

I am contacting you regarding my concerns about the proposed lifting of the
existing ban on earmarks in the bill making appropriations for the Department of
Homeland Security, and the impact this would have on national security.

An article in this morning's Congress Daily suggested that House and Senate
Homeland Security appropriators may try and lift the ban on earmarks in the
Homeland Security spending bill that has been in effect for the past two years.
I believe such a move would break with your long-standing position that the
Department of Homeland Security must have the flexibility to direct funding
based on where the Department's analysts believe it is needed most, as opposed
to where Congress wishes to spend it. If Congress goes down the road of turning
the Homeland Security spending bill into a vehicle for "pork," as has happened
with the other spending bills, it is certain that Congress will divert vital
funds away from key domestic sectors that need protection. In the last two
years, despite a ban on earmarks in the Homeland Security spending bill, the
House and Senate appropriators on that subcommittee received a combined 3,100
requests for earmarks. Clearly, the number of requests will dramatically
proliferate if the ban on earmarks in this bill is lifted.

For the reasons stated above, I urge you to publicly oppose any attempts to lift
the ban on earmarks in the Homeland Security spending bill. Your favorable
consideration of this request would be greatly appreciated.

Sincerely,

JEFF FLAKE

Member of Congress

Contact: Matthew Specht, 202/225-2635.

