                       March 9, 2007 Friday 1:48 AM  EST

REPS. FLAKE, SCHIFF TROUBLED BY PATRIOT ACT ABUSE

BYLINE: US Fed News

LENGTH: 401  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. (6th CD), issued the following press release:

Republican Rep. Jeff Flake, who represents Arizona's 6th District, and
Democratic Congressman Adam Schiff, who represents California's 29th District,
were deeply troubled today by reports of abuse of PATRIOT Act powers by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).

An audit by the Justice Department found that the FBI improperly used powers
afforded to them by the PATRIOT Act to acquire personal information on U.S.
citizens.

"Obviously, this news is very troubling," said Flake. "Congressional action will
likely be necessary, but we need to investigate further before we determine an
appropriate course."

"The abuses of authority we learned of today are alarming and must be
addressed," said Schiff. "It was most disturbing to learn that there were many
cases in which federal agents demanded records and made assurances that grand
jury subpoenas were forthcoming - when none was later provided or even
contemplated. I commend House Judiciary Committee Chairman Conyers for
announcing his intention to immediately schedule hearings on this issue so that
Congress can probe these abuses and determine what legislative response is
necessary."

Reps. Schiff and Flake were the only two members who attended a briefing by the
FBI on the details that were the subject of the report released today by the
Justice Department's Inspector General. The damaging report found systemic
failures in the use of National Security Letters (NSLs) and repeated errors in
the FBI's ability to follow the strict guidelines within the Patriot Act.

Most disturbingly, the report identifies over 700 occasions in which the FBI
circumvented the requirements of national security letter authorities and
internal FBI policy by using a tool known as "exigent letters," signed by
personnel not authorized to sign NSLs, to immediately obtain information from
telecommunications companies. These letters - requesting information on
approximately 3,000 different telephone numbers - falsely indicated that grand
jury subpoenas had been requested and many of these letters were not issued in
exigent circumstances.

Congressmen Flake and Schiff have introduced the NSA Oversight Act, a bipartisan
measure that will modernize the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act to respond
to changes in technology and new threats.

Contact: Matthew Specht, 202/225-2635.

